Lua strings sub() (#3160)
Codecademy/docs: content/lua/concepts/strings/terms/sub/sub.md

---
Title: '.sub()'

> Description: 'Extracts a substring from a given string'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Extracts a substring from a given string.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.sub()`** function is used to extract a substring from a given string. The function takes two arguments; the string from which you want to extract a substring and the starting and ending indices of the substring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.sub()`** function is used to extract a substring from a given string. The extracted substring is determined by the integers passed to the function, which specify the starting and ending index.
```

## Syntax

> ```lua

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

string.sub(originalString, startIndex, endIndex)
```

> `originalString`: The original string to extract the substring.
> `startIndex`: The index at which the substring should start (inclusive).
> `endIndex` (optional): The index at which the substring should end (exclusive). If `endIndex` is not provided, the substring will extend to the end of the original string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `originalString`: The string from which the substring will be extracted.
- `startIndex`: The index at which the substring should start (inclusive).
- `endIndex` (optional): The index at which the substring should end (exclusive). If `endIndex` is not provided, the substring will extend to the end of the original string.
```

## Example

Here are some examples of how to use `string.sub()` :

```lua
local originalString = "Hello, World!"
local subString1 = string.sub(originalString, 1, 5)
local subString2 = string.sub(originalString, 8)

print(subString1)
print(subString2)

> 

Reviewer: remove empty line
